Welcome to Chapter 2!
We've already accomplished so much with our exploratory data analysis in the first chapter; it's
now time to get into finding insights in preparation for building our final deliverable for DataSearch.
Let's reflect back on some of the key findings that we will want to continue to investigate.
First, is that the number of job postings are trending upward over time.
With the exception of a couple of brief periods of decline in job postings in 2020; overall,
job postings for data science roles are rising in demand, which is a very good thing for DataSearch.
Next, is that of the 5 jobs to investigate, Data
Engineers, Scientists, and Analysts are some of the most needed jobs.
We will want to focus on these jobs in our upcoming analysis to maximize our efforts.
Finally, we noted that technology industries are requesting data science positions
the most and that these roles all have competitive salaries that are rising with demand.
We'll need to dive more into these industries and companies in the upcoming analysis.
Although we were able to perform some high level analysis of all of the data
previously, we will be diving deeper into some of the columns shown to uncover further insights.
We will focus on building these findings with enticing visualizations.
For this, we want to look into any correlation between skills and a specific job title.
Additionally, we'll investigate top industries and companies that are requesting these roles.
And finally, it's always good practice to give recommendations to your stakeholders on your
findings, so we'll need to keep an eye out for key insights we want to share with our client.
Recall, that we are in the third phase of our project of analyzing and building visualizations.
This is all in preparation for building our final deliverable of a dashboard for DataSearch.
Before we jump back in, it's always a good idea to have end goals in mind for what you want to accomplish.
Otherwise, you will wind up working aimlessly with no end in mind.
For these end-goals, it's important you take the time to think about:
- What key
findings you want to focus on and highlight
- What are the best visualizations to convey
these insights
- And finally, how can this all be best communicated
It's time to get back to it.
Enjoy!